All right, let's move on.
And this one is a little bit
of a complex problem.
But yes, we have to deal with
the complex problems as well.
The ability to handle
the complex problems will make
you a great developer.
Don't shy them away.
They look really, scary at first.
But eventually you will
nail down much, much
greater problems than this.
So let's read this one by one.
The step one is always to read
the problem as closely as you can.
So notice here you can.
You are building a smart
thermostat alert system.
Pretty good.
We are building a thermostat
alerting system.
And what do we want
to do in this, system?
Just read this pretty easy.
If the device status is active,
okay, so we have to measure
the device status first
and the temperature is above 35.
Then we have to put
up a warning sign that high
temperature alert, all right?
Else the temperature is normal.
If the device is off,
device is offline.
So notice here we are not checking
just for one condition, but we
are checking for one condition
and inside that also we are checking
for another condition.
And this is a kind
of a leveling of the condition.
As you can say.
This is also known as a nesting
of if statements.
But again, that doesn't really matter
or doesn't really sound much.
Now you have seen
the problem statement.
You can see, it makes sense.
I'm checking for one condition,
then inside that I'm checking for
further another condition.
And then only I'm putting
up the warning message.
Else part is pretty clear.
And we are checking for here.
So first let's see how we can
actually take down this problem.
So we'll close this one and we'll
create a new file and we'll
call this one as smart,
probably lowercase smart thermostat.
Py the first thing that we have
to measure is device status.
I don't know how that is coming
up, but as of now, let's assume that
the device status is active.
Now as the problem statement says, it
could be device status as active or
it could be as device is offline.
So that's good.
And I another thing that will come
up here is notice here
the temperature is 35, so we are
checking this 35 only when
the device status is active.
So let's just say we
create a variable.
We call this one as temperature.
Temperature.
And the temperature is 38.
Okay, so how do we write a program?
We simply go ahead and say if
the device status
is equals to active.
If it is active, we simply go
ahead and Put some message.
And by the way, just for temporary
point, you want
to write the else part first.
There is a nice trick
in these kinds of statements.
You can write a keyword as pass.
Pass simply means I
will come back here.
We'll do about it later on.
Right now just ignore this so that
you don't give me any warning.
I come back here and I write
the else part here and else part.
The writing of the else part is easy.
If the device status is active,
we are doing something else.
If the device is off, we are
saying device is offline.
So here I can simply go
ahead and print a statement
that says like this.
And we simply call this
one as device is offline.
So I hope you can see,
the keyword pass helped me
to write the else part first.
Without giving me any warning.
If I just go ahead and remove
this and write it like this,
it always keeps me yelling
give me that squiggly line.
So I don't like them.
So I sometimes temporarily write
these kinds of code just because
I want to come back here later.
Now notice here it says
okay, device is active.
If we go into this part, then we
simply check for the temperature.
If it is above 35, we put a warning.
Otherwise we say
temperature is normal.
So inside this we can again
start if condition here or
conditional block and we can check
for temperature here.
Now temperature.
If it is greater than 35, we simply
go ahead and say some message.
So I'll just go ahead and print
a simple statement,
high temperature alert.
And if it is an alert, it should end
with an exclamation.
And here also I can put
up an else part.
And this is the most interesting
and point where you should
pay a little attention.
So I'll just go ahead and print this
and I will first say
temperature is normal.
So the most important part here is.
Notice here we have two
else's here, but each one is
denoted inside a block.
The block is the most important
part that we are studying here.
This is the outer block.
The else part here is
of the outer if.
But here we can see this is
if statement and the if
can be easily found out.
The else part with the indentation.
Now here the else part is
actually totally optional.
We could have it.
We couldn't have it.
Doesn't really bother us much.
We can have it.
We might ignore it,
but in this case we have it.
Our problem statement says
that we need to have it.
But again, pay small attention
on the indentation
and how the leveling.
And again there is nothing which
is stopping you to start another
block inside the if statement.
Maybe after printing a message
you want to start another condition
here, so you can go ahead
and start another condition.
So so let's just say I will simply
write it as true and then I want
to write another print statement.
I can just go ahead and write
that I will not do it here.
This was just to explain you,
but get the point that yes,
we can write as many if else
nesting of them as we like.
Or the problem statement says right
now, our problem statement says that
hey, you should do only this much.
So yeah, we are okay, we
are doing this much only.
Hope you have enjoyed building this
smart thermostat warning system
and hope you have enjoyed this.
If yes, please do rate us.
Let's catch up in the next video.